# How Mark Kosoglow Scaled Outreach to $250M | NeWell.io Podcast

- **URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=43ltDck8frU

## Transcript

My first year was guaranteed guaranteed pay of at least $23,000. Let's go. But I did really well there. I took a territory that had never been a viable territory for a rep in about a decade and I took it to one of the top 10% best. What do you actually believe is the actual sales leadership role, whether it's AEs, SDRs, whatever that looks like, and why do you kind of agree that it's super important? Hey Mark, awesome to have you on and welcome. I'm obviously super familiar with your career, but just for our listeners, can you walk us through career highlights, how you've ended up as a chief revenue officer at Dechert Bo, give us like the once over and then I'm just buzzing to dive in. Well, I'm going to start earlier than probably most people because my first real job probably was the catalyst for everything, quite honestly, is I used to sell shoes in a mall. I sold this in a little town in Mississippi. And what I didn't realize at the time was my store manager was actually teaching me consultative sales. So I'd just sit in the back and watch 14 videos about how to sell the right kind of shoes to people based on their gait and their sport and what they're doing and and I ended up with like 200 people that would only buy their shoes from me, this like little shoe store dude in the mall, right? Crazy. But then I went to college and I became a credit card telemarketer. So I'd call anybody and everybody, probably around dinner time, trying to sell them a credit card. But with that, I learned that no doesn't matter. I literally have calculated it out. I probably got like 14,000 no's over a 4-month period, so I I don't care about no anymore. No is just getting the yes, right? And then I started an outside sales job where I sold fundraisers to schools. It was commission-only. You know, I had two kids at the time. My first year was guaranteed guaranteed pay of at least $23,000. Let's go. My the grill, steak time. Two kids. I got made up that one. So but I did really well there. I took a territory that had never been a viable territory for a rep in about a decade and I took it to one of the top 10% best uh uh territories in the country out of 250 territories. It was a top 25 territory and did really well there. Then I got recruited into sales leadership where I still continued to sell stuff to schools and I had a team up and down the East Coast and that's where I really, you know, cut my teeth in sales leadership. And then magically, and I do mean magically, like one in 10 billion probably, I met a young, semi-young, okay, not young, he's my age. He probably at the time we were both in our mid-30s, CEO co-founder named Manny Medina. And we got introduced to each other through a really interesting guy in New York City and I was living in the middle of Pennsylvania, nowhere, a town of 5,000 people and just uh thought, you know, I don't know how I can advance my career. I was listening to podcasts about technology and startups and stuff in my car every day and I would be driving, you know, anywhere from 3 to 5 hours a day. So I just was like getting a PhD in that stuff through podcasts and this is back when like, you know, you had to download the podcast on your little iPod shuffles, actually right up there. That looks like a stick of gum. Right? That little thing up there that cost like 120 bucks. That thing probably has made me millions of dollars from what I learned from listening to all that thing. This is insane. I like a little Sony cassette thing that you put like the CD in and then just carried it around in your bag and have your headphones come in like that. Yeah, and then you had to worry if it was going to skip. You couldn't like step too hard. Or just, you know, so I did that. I did this so met Manny, you know, when luckily he said, "Hey, you know, I'd love for you to teach me about sales." I said, "Well, why am I just not selling Outreach?" He said, "We can't afford you." So I quit my job and I went on a 100% commission and I sold about a million bucks of Outreach in the first 6 months. Manny asked me to lead the sales team. So I went from first employee to leading the sales team to about 250 million bucks. Then I went to the CRO at Catalyst where I took them from 5 and 1/2 to 10 and 1/2 in 14 months when it'd taken them 5 years to get to 5 and 1/2. That's insane. Try my hand at entrepreneurship, quickly found out I'm not really an entrepreneur. Like that's not what I want to do right now. I I much prefer to be an operator, like running a team. I'd rather figure out how to get the tools to get me results and build those tools. And now I'm the CRO at a publicly traded company called Dechert Bo. What a career. Like genuinely starting from selling shoes to becoming like the shoe man to 23 grand to being CRO of a public traded company. Pretty crazy, I'm telling you. I I'll never forget my ex-wife and I when we were probably, I'm going to say, 23 years old. She might have been 24. We were on our little bed in our $55,000 house in the middle of nowhere that was literally downhill from the worst bar in town and I don't even want to tell you the stuff that we saw that came walking through our backyard. And we were like, "Hey, we don't have any money." And we literally found all the change in our house and I have a vivid memory of laying all the change out in our house and then we looked at each other and started laughing and said, "People get divorced over this. Ridiculous." And then we got divorced over something else, but but it was never a money thing but we did but you know, we would we would count change to buy groceries and we played this game where it's like we won't buy any other food until we eat every morsel of food in our entire house. And until you've had a frozen corn dog with Frenchies, onions, fried onions on it with refried beans, you haven't really lived. I honestly think this is class. Your story is like unreal, right? And like I feel super lucky cuz if I could sit and talk about this all day, every day I would, but my friends just find me like so boring. Like genuinely genuinely so boring, which is why I have to find friends that are in the industry that we can just end up talking about this for hours, but I'd love to like unpick like a few things, right? Cuz it's top of mind for me right now as we're building a business here is A, there's a few roles, right? And the one thing that really stands out to me right now is like the frontline leadership role. I talk about this role because I believe it's arguably the most important role, but I didn't really understand this until I've been part of two successful hypergrowth companies, very very lucky. One was in the B2B SaaS space, raised a ton of capital, and then one was in the more high-ticket, like Alex Hormozi, Tony Robbins kind of space, like relentless, almost like your sales bros. But like both of those were high performance, but both of them the sales leadership role could have been X and Y. Like I couldn't quite how there was such a difference in how both those operated from like corporate SaaS solution to like relentless high-ticket sales. Do I think either or have their like positives? Yeah, but just the combination I think is really powerful. So I'd love to like understand from your perspective. I mean, you've grown massive teams and gone through the ranks, but like what do you actually believe is the actual sales leadership role, whether it's AEs, SDRs, whatever that looks like, and why do you kind of agree that it's super important? Yeah, I do think that the frontline manager role is the most important role in the GTM org. I'd say even in the CSM org and the onboarding org and the SE org, it's uh it's that kind of translation layer. It'd be like if you were writing a movie and you hired actors and a producer but no director. And so we got the scripts and stuff and the actors are just kind of like flying around. Hey, I think we'll shoot this scene over here. Like, yeah, I like this one. No, I want this this one. The frontline manager is the director. They're the one that takes the vision of the producer, the script, the whole idea and then they make it translatable to the actors that end up creating the finished product. And so you can't have a great sales org without great sales leaders, just like you can't have a great movie without a great director, right? It's just not not possible. So I think that that's like the main way I think about it. And I also have something on when people ask me, "Hey, what do I need to do to be a leader?" And they always about that first frontline manager job. And my job my word is that I've learned in the education industry is your job as a manager is efficacy. It's the ability to affect change. Can I change someone's mindset, someone's behavior, somebody's results, somebody's relationships? Can I change somebody's perception in the org? If you can't change something, then you don't get to be a manager. That's a caretaker. And we don't really need caretakers in GTM. We need we need managers that can influence and change outcomes and careers. I know, it's almost like it's like transformational leadership, isn't it? It's a huge thing and it's like we always say it's like you want to you want your team to understand that you're the vehicle to like their next step, right? And if you can get them bought into that and that they're like almost like rowing in the same direction with that, I think it's just like super pivotal. And I've seen and I've been part of it once and it's like it's almost like the ultimate competitive advantage when you have everyone knowing that their leader is helping them get to like that next step and it's almost like that vehicle. And that where I've seen huge success when it comes to like revenue cuz obviously like customer-centric and all that kind of stuff, but just like the actual having that ability to yeah, transform the leader, transform your team to understand where you want to go is just crazy in terms of just like growth and scalability. Yeah. When you can when you figure out how to get people to change and results change, like that's when you become a extremely valuable person, right? And now listen, everybody who talks about the change from rep to leader, and that's a humongous transition. It's a totally different job. But the change from manager of managing ICs to a director to managing managers, very different. And then the jump from that kind of director VP area to an executive, that was probably for me the hardest transition to make. And honestly, a transition I don't know if I would have made without an executive coach I had named Pamela Mattson. And so like there's those different transitions in your career. You've got to first start with can I get people to change? Cuz you'll you have to have that skill in all the other places that you kind of go up. And then this is this is amazing like honestly cuz I totally agree. And when people ask me if they want to become a leader, I'm like honestly like 90% of your job is just quality control and making sure the reps are doing what they need to do. And then 10% is just like giving all of you giving your team all the praise and you just take all the hard stuff. So first of all like do you actually want that job because truly it's not actually that fun. And also like top reps sometimes outperform their leaders anyway. So it's just like it's like a finance thing as well. But like in terms of like the widely underperformance in terms of just like quota attainment for example, when it comes to like the leadership, where do you think is like the things that are going wrong? Like where do you think there's gaps in the leaders to be able to execute on that role properly? Do you think they just not had the education on how to execute their role? Or do you just think it's like almost impossible to achieve when you don't have someone like yourself that's like guiding you through it within the company? I think that there are things inside your locus of control and things that are outside your locus of control. So like for example, let's say that you are a manager of a of a highly transactional team that needs a lot of inbound leads in order to hit quota. If marketing or whatever mechanism isn't delivering those leads, it's very difficult for you to have something inside your internal locus of control like what I can actually wrap your hands around and change. Yeah. But you know what? Like if you're an enterprise leader and you don't have enough pipeline, then you do have control more control over that. And you should be having like a prospecting methodology and stuff for people to go out for. So it really depends. I think like mostly what I the reason I see most sales managers fail is one, they're not really a manager, they're a super rep. And they're trying to run like eight or six to eight pipelines on their own and getting involved in every deal. Like that's the the the first thing. The second thing is is like they think that they're like the Jesus of sales people and they're their personal savior and they will they will rescue every rep no matter what. You know what? Some people just aren't cut out for sales even though they've been in the job and had the job for a long time. Sometimes it's just they're just not going to be successful at your company, but they're you can free them into their own success if you just let them go, right? Yeah. >> That that that can one. And the the last one that I see most often is people don't really never really understood how they became successful as a rep. So they don't have the ability to teach other people how to be successful. It was just kind of like Michael Jordan can't be a coach because he's so great that he can't understand his own greatness. So he he is frustrated at other people. That's that's how like a lot of times the best reps don't make good managers. They just don't get why people don't do stuff and they don't have the frameworks and understanding of how to kind of teach somebody to do things the right way. But you know, if you you can teach uh you can be usually a really really great frontline manager. It's super interesting that you say when you earlier when you said that you had an executive coach to get you to the next level because like I was that top performing rep that just but then went into SDR manager and then went into AE and then went into AE manager and all of this kind of stuff. And I know we touched on Caitlin Kelly from Outreach before. But like I actually don't think I would have been able to navigate being cuz at the start I was still on on quota and coaching. But I don't think I would have been able to navigate that without a coach genuinely because like it's so different. And being able to have to do two roles is just almost impossible. So just like understanding what that role looks like and then being able to coach and then putting change within your reps is just crazy. But if you can get it then your career is almost like flying. Yeah, the the the team lead where I have a quota and I have people is it's just like all right, I'm doing doing two totally different jobs and like one of them I'm going to like more than the other which means that the other one is probably going to suffer. I just I'm not a big fan of team lead situations. I know it's all. And then when it comes like you know when we talk about like they don't know why they're so great cuz I see this all the time. Do you when you look at coaching reps and and you look at like underperformance or high performance, do you feel like you can look at a rep and understand how they've got there, understand those characteristic traits and then basically articulate that back down to the team even if you don't think that they've got that like A star characteristic traits, right? Or are you of the mindset once you've done that analysis, A fire quickly and B then just spend time on the reps that actually do have it? I I believe so. I think it's kind of like a two-party answer. >> Yeah. I think that some people have their own level of genius and they figure out how to win in a way that like isn't always translatable. I have a great example of that is one of our best reps ever, the probably top three rep at Everret Outreach. His name is Riley Devine. When I hired him, he's like I'll be your top rep in six months. He was. He was always one, two, or three every single year after that. And Riley was the rep that everybody wanted to listen to his calls because it was kind of like watching Picasso paint. It was like amazing to listen to his calls. But his mind works so fast. He's so he's so sharp and intelligent that I couldn't feel like I could translate what he did into a way that a normal person could do it. >> Interesting. He just operated on a different level. Now I had another rep named Ryan Jander. Ryan Jander, super sharp and everything, but like he just followed the playbook to a T. And I could be like, "Listen, you can try to learn Riley's way, which is trying to learn like, you know, some kind of, you know, mystic ninja that lives in the upper mountains of Japan and you can kind of traverse him and maybe he'll enlighten you enough that you can do his moves. Or you know what? I got this dude right here. He's in the boxing gym. You just go take some boxing classes, get hit a few times, punch the bag and you'll be able to knock somebody out, right?" And that's what Jander was. He would just follow the process, right? So you can have reps that have their own genius that you probably shouldn't try to copy because just people aren't going to be able to do it. Then you have those people that are just like genius inside the process. That's what I'm kind of looking for. I would much rather have a genius inside the process person than like a you know, a savant that works outside the process but still gets amazing results. It's honestly I know exactly what you're talking about cuz I've never had the same and you're just watching that calls like I don't even know how to tell you guys how to do this. Like he's navigating it. It's psychological. It's is the the ability to build that rapport so quickly. It's the social intelligence. It's then the emotional IQ. And then it's like the process on top of that. But like I've I worked with like insane people and I I always remember asking Mark Roberge like, "When is like the best when do you what's the best advice you've ever got from like a customer best feedback you've ever got from a customer?" And they literally said when you don't know that you've been sold. And like if you can do that as a rep, it's like that's genius. But to coach that and train that into people in a process is almost impossible, right? Yeah, yeah. Mhm. Yeah, no. You know, a lot of it has to do with your personality. Some of it has to do with your cognitive ability. Like you said it also has to do with your EQ. And like there's a lot of stuff that goes into it. And you know, trying to find people that are all above average and awesome at all of those things, there's just not that many humans in the world. There's definitely not that many humans in sales in that in the in the world. So it if you try to like hire and build and work with that, listen, if you could do it, that would be amazing. But quite honestly like you wouldn't really need to be that much of a manager because those people kind of take care of themselves. I would just rather have the people, you know, the guy that straps on his lunch pail every day, follows the system, and gets the the good predictable results every single year. Yeah, and you you understand how he's getting these results as well. Yeah, I can help him. Yeah, yeah, exactly. So just looking back on your career cuz this is like I I love this I love like thinking about this cuz like I've led a lot of teams where it's just like I almost just have to sit down and really understand like how this is going to work. But obviously at some point you must have taken over a team that's probably underperforming or there's like some serious issues within the team. And this can be like leadership or whatever. But like what's your kind of like go to not like first 30 60 90 days, but like how do you identify what's going wrong? And then how do you like almost like bring that team back up? Like is it a case if you just go in and understand who needs to go and who needs to stay? Or is it a a case of understanding actually have they had like the vehicle almost to be able to succeed? And what does that look like? Like I would just love your perspective on that cuz I'm sure you've taken over an underperforming team in some sort of level over your career. Yeah, so I have a kind of a a way of thinking through this is I require reps to do two things. And I require the manager to do one. Okay, cool. I love it. Give it to me. And what this does is it lets me figure out where the problem is. Because it's not always the rep. You can have a good rep that's doing badly because their manager stinks. And you can have a rep that's doing great despite their manager stinking. And they could do even better if you got a great manager in there. So the two things I need from reps are coachability Nice. and effort. Like are you going to come to work every day and work hard? And are you going to listen to all the things that we're going to say to you that help you and put those into action and change your behavior? You can do that or not. If I get those two things, it's the manager's job to make that turn into outcomes. Okay. If I got a rep that can work hard and coach and and they're coachable and they're not getting results, that's cuz the manager isn't able to turn that into outcomes. And that's unacceptable cuz that's all I need out of a rep. Give me those two things, I can make a rep win. I say. >> Right? As long as they have a decent manager that can help them get outcomes with that. Right? And so, like here's a again an example is like you know, have a I had a I've had a managers that had reps that were they all they want to do is complain about their reps. All the reps won't do this, reps won't do that, right? When I go talk to the reps, they're just like hungry, hungry for great advice. And that's when I start to know, "Hmm, are you starving or you just not eating, right? Is this a hunger strike or is this are you is this there's nothing out there to eat, right?" And that's when I start to go to team meetings and stuff like that. And and it's pretty easy to see when a leader has lost their team because they don't feel like that leader has street cred. And on 30 minutes to President's Club, which is the podcast I host, we talk about street cred all the time. And one of the most important things you can have as a leader is like, "Oh, you need me I'm going to coach you on something. Would you like for me to model that in the call?" And then doing that specifically correctly, the way that you described it, and getting the outcome you want in the call, like all of a sudden your reps will listen to you more, right? So, that's the that's how I think about when I go into a team. I'm going to look to see do I have coachable, hard-working reps. If I do, then I'm getting rid of managers. If I have great managers, but the reps won't are coachable and won't work hard, then I get rid of the reps. And like that's how I look at it. And then I'm like this kind of 10Xer thing where I'm like, "All right, are you a 10Xer? In which case, I want you to feel connected. I want you to feel like you're growing, and I want you to feel appreciated." Right? I'm going to have a program to do that for my 10Xers cuz I never want them to leave because they every 10Xer I have makes my job 2X easier. Right? Then I have the people that should be 10Xers, but they're not yet. We create a development plan to get them to 10X or to get them to the bottom category, which is they can't be a 10Xer. If you can't be a 10Xer, then we're in some state of managing you out of the business so that you can you we can get more 10Xers in, right? And so, that's that's the kind of the two ways I think about it is you know, the two things for a rep, one thing for a manager, and then my 10Xer kind of stuff. I actually love this. I want to dive into the 10Xers cuz like I'm super passionate about that. But this this whole thing super interesting in terms of like the coachability and work ethic cuz I genuinely think feedback's a gift, right? I'm like constantly like review my calls, review my calls, one two three things one two three things or take it into the next call. Just give me two things every day. And like that ability to get to the level you need to be is just wild. But I also was like horrendous at school. Like riddled with ADHD. I don't know if you can tell. I remember them calling my dad being like, "We basically needed her to be in a PE lesson every single day for her to be able to sit in the class." Human dad is like, "I don't know why you're calling me. That's fine." And I was like so bad. And I was just like, "Oh my goodness, I'm never going to be a lawyer. I'm never going to earn any money. I'm never going to be a doctor." Blah blah blah blah. And I then fell into sales like most people did. First first role and the company scaled aggressively. And I like looked around. I was like, "I'm sure if I just obsess over this one skill and outperform everyone in work ethic, I have to win. Like I literally can't fail." So, I read every book. I listened to every podcast. I just mastered the skill set of sales. Then more importantly, I just outworked everyone. And I swear to God that I outperform the talent. And loads of people were better than me at the start, but I just kept going going and going. And now I'm just like so grateful I had that foundation. And like you can always learn, you can always get better. But I truly believe I've got the foundation now that everything's no matter what happens in my career, I feel like everything's going to be fine cuz I've got that. But keep growing, keep scaling. But I always like look for those two things, that coachability. And like if I can give them feedback, I test when I give them feedback to see how they respond to it. If they don't respond to it how I would have responded when I got feedback, I'm like, I don't know if I can manage you. Like honestly like and their level of work ethic cuz I and I say to my friends, I'm just like honestly, if you want like a lot of money and you want a lot of freedom, if you get good at sales and just work really hard, it can actually happen. And it's just crazy that that one skill has like transformed my entire life, which I genuinely thought I was going to be like some legal PA or something for the rest of my life cuz I was never going to make into anything that the school wanted me to do. But it is those two things, right? And that will give you success. Yeah, 100%. You know, I'm I'm really lucky. My dad one of the things my dad gave me was uh a strong work ethic. You know, he told me when I was almost 16, which you know, in the US you can't really start working till you're 16 unless you get you know, in some states you can do other stuff you can in some states you can't. But like in my case he's like, "Listen, if you don't have a job by the time you turn 16," he's like, "I'm driving you to the grocery store and you will have a job." My dad was very very successful. I didn't need it I didn't need a job. He just knew that I needed a job, if you know what I'm saying. My dad used to drive me to school and every day used to be like, "What what's it all about?" And I used to just be like, "Work ethic and outcomes. Work ethic outcomes. Work ethic outcomes." And then I went I went to university and I was like, "Basically, I'm just going to revise the whole paper and learn it off by heart cuz I'm never going to be able to understand the actual questions in the exam." And I was just like, "Okay, work ethic outcomes." But I genuinely believe you have that work ethic and the outcomes come. Yeah, no doubt. It's not I mean intelligence helps, you know, EQ helps, but I believe that there's still the ability to outwork people and you can always control how hard you work. Yeah, I love it. So, talk to me about the 10Xers. Like what I love to ask people, especially with someone like a career of yours, what are the common traits that you've seen in with the 10Xers out of work? Like off off calls? Like what are they actually doing? Is there like a common thing that everyone talks about morning routines and stuff? But like genuinely when you have these 10Xers that you're obviously close with, seen them perform, like what are they doing that's different from the people that are in the development or the people that are slowly being let go? Yeah, I wouldn't say there's a lot of common traits other than you know, they're they just kind of win. Yeah, I don't I don't know if I have like a a trait. They're usually smarter, you know, but not always, you know. I think what I'm looking for is someone that if I say I'm giving you this, what they do is they take it seriously. And then when they give it back to me, it's more than what I gave them when before. And they consistently do that. You know what I mean? Like they they don't they don't get wound up in the day-to-day. Like they have an ability to kind of like navigate their way through all of that stuff in order to get done what like needs to get done. And they always do just a little bit better than you expect, if not a lot better than you expect. And right you know, they're kind of a little bit more aggressive or proactive about hey, I want to grow and stretch. And that's why I came up with the you know, the three things that I think 10Xers need is they they need to be acknowledged, right? They need to understand that they are in a different category and that the company values them differently because they perform differently. And that it has really strong reverberations throughout the whole world. When people see if I do my job really really well, this company will not let me leave and I'll always enjoy my job here, right? So, you got to have that that part of the appreciation. The second thing is they need to be growing. These people need to feel like they're expanding their responsibility, expanding their pay, whatever it is, right? Like they they need to feel like they're moving forward. I would say that is probably one common trait now that I'm saying this is like they just have this addiction to kind of moving forward. Like sitting still is just not cool for them, right? You know, like, "Oh, you know what? Like I mowed the grass today in half an hour. That's great. Next week I'm going to try to mow the grass in 28 minutes." Literally me with everything I did. Exactly. And you just crush it like that, right? And then the last thing is they need to feel connected. They need to feel like that they have a connection to the executive team, to the leaders, that they have a say, right? That they are being listened to and heard, that they for example, with a 10Xer, if I'm visiting them like in a ride-along and their kid has a soccer game, I'm probably going to the soccer game that night and not sitting in my hotel room because I need them to feel how much I feel connected to them. I want them to feel that connected, right? And I I think when you give a great performer, you know, appreciation, connection, and growth, they feel locked in. I honestly like that is just like insane. So, you actually have like almost like a framework for that with every business that you go to. Yeah I I would say one of my superpowers is relationship building. Like when I came to Dechert, I want I want to say that there was no less than 50 people that reached out to me about wanting to work together again. And when I started my startup, there was no less than 20 30 people that reached out and said, "Hey, like how can I help? What can I do?" Well, we talk about like the what to do to be a manager. And one is that efficacy thing. The second thing I tell people is you got to build your squad. Who's your squad? If you're not building a squad, like one of my best VPs at Outreach, he's got his squad now. He's at his second place after Outreach. Every time he just takes his whole squad with him. And imagine what that does when you take your squad and like you know each other, you trust each other. There's like good vibes and good conversations when you're not in the room because they're on your they're on your side. They understand how you do things, right? And like building your squad is a extremely underrated part of sales leadership. It's not your network, it's your squad. It's more than a network. 100%. And it's so interesting, right? And I could speak for hours about this. But obviously like hiring wrong is just like the worst thing that you can do. And it kind of takes away the guesswork from hiring. Like I followed my leaders around like my first three jobs, right? Because I just I I never got interviewed. They just knew who I was. They knew my my ability to perform. I would come in and I would execute. And to be honest, they want me because I make them look good, right? So, it's just like but it's just insane that we like now now I'm growing into like leadership at the higher level. I look back. I'm like, "Oh, I kind of get what was all going on back then." And it's just so true. Awesome. Well, look, we do need to wrap up. But I do want to ask you one thing because I saw on your LinkedIn about the whole AI and humans as differentiators. And I really just want to touch on that, right? Cuz there's a lot of things going on right now about like SDRs roles going to be wiped out. Anything under like a 40 50K ACV is going to be like wiped out by AI. I passionately think that humans are everything and I've only ever sold purely on my social ability and my ability to create compelling relationships. Like I like I I literally believe you don't have a champion, you don't win the deal, right? And I've sold millions of dollars of deals through my champion, right? So I would just love just like cuz I just saw it and I was just like I'm super aligned with that. But like what's your Yeah, what's your take on it? Thoughts? Feedback? Cuz that's all we're hearing on the market right now. Yeah, I think it's, you know, paranoia. I mean, listen, spreadsheets were supposed to kill accountants, computers were supposed to kill like what my dad did, you know what I mean? Like this is a million things out there like that. Like this is a cyclical thing. Let's just take it to a conclusion for a second, Laura. Let's say that this AI does wipe out every BDR job and any deal under 20k no longer needs a sales person. You know what we did was we just probably wiped out hundreds of thousands of jobs. And guess what? The people that had those jobs can no longer buy stuff because they no longer are making money and then like everything like everything starts to collapse. Like you just can't wipe out an entire section of of an economy and the workers in that economy. Like it just collapses the whole economy. The economy is like a Jenga tow tower. If I take out 20k people out of that, like all of a sudden things start to get really shaky if not collapsing. So Also, listen. Let's say that all of a sudden, you know, again, people are very cyclical and we do get to this place. You know what's going to happen is one company's going to be like, "We're not going to use AI. We're going to use humans." And then they're going to they're going to insist on using humans and then the next thing you know, everybody's going to use humans. And then somebody's like, "Hey, I'm going to just use AI." And then we're going to go back. It's like this is how this stuff works, right? Like it's ultimately different is good. AI placing people is different right now. Yeah. >> special, but I don't know. I don't I don't think so. I think that uh The thing that that that is interests me the most though is if I I there was this company called Computer Technology Company of California, I think is what it's called. And I can't remember the name of the app, but I heard about this app and it was like AI doing magical stuff. And so I went to the website and it the button they call the actual was just text us. Okay, so I click it. And it's like and it texts me and it's like, "Hey, Mark, this is" I can't remember the name of the product this product thingy. And it's like, "We're super close right now. Nothing, you know, if you want to get in, like you you have to like convince me." It's literally what it said. I was like, "What?" All right. I was like, "What do you mean convince you?" Well, it was an AI and it said it was an AI. And it was an AI. But you know what? Because it was an  AI and I would it was novel, I was like, "Oh, I'm into it." And I'd be like Yeah, you can't convince me. That's right. I I can do it. I'm the like oh, he's like, "Well, we know who you are. Like, you know, you're you do you did outreach. You did this and this and this." Like blah blah blah. Like, you know, but you have to tell us why you're worthy to get into our product. And I was like, "Well, what about this?" And they're like, "Okay." And then they're like, "It's going to be 2,000 bucks a month." I'm like, "There's no way I'm paying that. I got it down to like a dollar a month, right?" Like and I and I literally had like an hour and a half long fun conversation with this  AI. Now, what if a rep, a human had done that? It would've been like click. See you later. There's no way I would've taken it. And so like our perception and the stuff that AI can do and get away with because it's not a human, that's the thing that's super interesting to me. We seem to be more patient and more trusting of an AI that we absolutely know is hallucinating and not doing good stuff than we are of humans. Now, we do have thousands of years of stuff that humans have messed us up, but you know. Funny to me. It's honestly so true. Like I use it a lot for like just streamlining all my processes. Like if I had what I use AI for now when we were like scaling SIA so aggressively, I probably could've three, four x my number in a year purely because like the level of proposals we were sending out on all of that kind of stuff. You can just streamline the whole process. So I do think it's going to make those 10x's even better if they use it correctly. So I do think there's actually a place for it in that sense, but I completely agree with you in terms of like everything that you've just said. Especially with BDRs having to like drive value first for the meeting as well. Like back in the day, I mean, I I don't think cold calling's dead. I don't think anything's dead at all. But I did used to book through like LinkedIn voice notes and all this kind of stuff like direct book. Whereas now it becomes more of like a value play. People are doing different things to kind of give them value before the new business meeting and all this kind of stuff. I just don't see how AI would be able to create that level of like value and connection before they would get to the new business meeting either. Yeah. I think we're there's some hardwired buyer behaviors. Like for example, I can't tell you how many companies have been like, "Hey, Mark, can you help us smooth out our revenue so the last month of the quarter is it like the biggest month?" And I'm like, "No." I like I can't help you with that. That is like an ingrained buyer DNA thing that like we've trained them that if they wait until the last minute, we're going to keep giving them discounts. And so there's just no way to get out of it. And you can say we don't do discounts. You can say best and final. Doesn't matter. You're going to they're people are going to sign at the end of the month end of the quarter, the last month of the quarter. So there's like ingrained buyer stuff. And I think one of the ingrained buyer things literally is is I kind of want to feel a connection in some way. I'm one. And I don't know if AI, no matter how helpful it's going to be, is going to be able to do that. Now, maybe if we have AI buyers and AI sellers, that would work. But I think as long as we have human buyers, there'll be some human in the loopness of a of whatever sales cycle you're doing. Yeah, it's it's funny cuz people have like such opposing views to both of us, right? Like I'm super aligned with what you're saying and I think any like any top sales rep to streamline it should definitely use it. But there's so much out there that's just like it's almost like I don't know. I get scared. I'm just like, "Woah." I I love the SDR role. I started my career as an SDR. I scaled up the business from an SDR. I've built SDR teams. Like I'm just like if that role was to be ever wiped out, it would actually be horrific. You know what's hilarious to me is I had people that are like big kind of AI, you know, automation innate in like wizards. And they'll be like, "Hey, listen, you know, sales is going to go away." And I was like, "You know what's really going to go away? Is like there's going to be AI that can create all the workflows that you do right now. So you're going to go away." And they're like, "No, I'm not." I'm like, "Also, when somebody what you're saying is not AI, but when you touch my thing, it's okay, you know, okay, I see how we're doing here, right?" And that's literally as soon as you threaten them, they're like, "Not going to happen." I'm like, "Well, why not?" And then they tell me the reasons. I'm like, "You just made my argument for me." And so as humans, we're all going to like defend our ground, right? We're like this is how I make my money. This is how I provide for my family. We let's protect it. And then but because you're trying to protect yours, you kind of deflect to everybody else's. Well, you know what's going away? You know, entry-level accountants. That's going away. That doesn't affect me as a sales guy at all, but that AI is coming for you, entry-level accountant, but not coming for entry-level sales, all right? Honestly. >> weird weird way that humans are dealing with this right now to me. Yeah, for sure. I just love that it's in your your headline. I think that was epic. Like I know that we do have to wrap up. I've taken so much of your time, but I love to just finish on now you are like where you are in your career and just all the way back to even pre-outreach. For people that are listening to this that are like aspiring CROs or even CROs right now, like do you have any clear gaps that you've basically closed while you've been going through the levels that you've been going through that you wish you'd kind of known when you were building the team at Outreach or anything like that when it comes to like high performance or just like just being a good leader in itself, right? Just building that culture where that squad that are around you that want to win with Mark, you know? Yeah, I mean, I think the easiest learning that or the the learning that kind of like hits me hard right now when you say that is that there's a lot of stuff around just like people skills and, you know, valuing the person, not getting confused like that the number is more important than the person, stuff like that. But like the the the most tangible situation that I had where I felt like, "Oh my gosh, I've actually learned something that I didn't know before. It's not like common sense." That has helped me feel like I create value was uh we're probably like at 150 million at Outreach, something like that. I had uh hired like what I thought was like the best VP team on the planet and we we loved working together. And I had a guy that was running enterprise, a guy that was running mid-market, and a guy that was running SMB. And all of a sudden, I had these VPs that if I asked if somebody asked me to fix a mid-market problem, my VP was probably better at fixing than that than me. Okay. Specifically for their like area of expertise, right? Right. Nice. And up to that point at Outreach, I'd been known as like the problem solver guy. Like, "Hey, we got a problem, Mark." "Oh, do this." Mark will plan it out, plan it out, launch it, metric, whatever. All of a sudden, I'm like, "Why am I doing this when like my man Chris Chris Albro can do this better than me?" Yeah. >> Like enterprise, like I'm not as good as him in enterprise. And so I started out like an identity crisis cuz all of a sudden, I felt like I felt at risk because I'm not creating value. And so my coach, her name was Pamela, she she's like, "Mark, we have to redefine what how you create value for the company." And it took us about 6 weeks, but we landed on three things. One was I need to clearly communicate my expectations. Two, I need to clearly communicate the timeline by which those expectations need to be met. And lastly is I need to evaluate the mental model by which people are solving the problems that they're tasked to solve. Right. So like now all of a sudden, I was like, "Oh, hey Chris, here's this enterprise problem. Uh we need to increase win rates by, you know, 10% in the next two quarters." And so there's my clear communication of timeline and the objective. Right. And be like, "Hey, can you get me a plan in a couple weeks about how we might do that?" And then Chris and I would then walk through the plan together and I would just be like, "What did you think about marketing helping you over here? Oh, what did you do with RevOps on this over here? How did you think about this thing I just read on LinkedIn over here?" And just evaluating that mental model and helping people think more, you know, collaboratively or like in a larger, different perspective that wasn't taking to account more stuff. That became my job and all of a sudden I felt reinvigorated and we like kind of reaccelerated at Outreach partly because of that in a way and I I learned a lot. That's how I learned what an executive was. Is it wasn't doing the work anymore, right? So, you know, I still like to get my hands in and do the work, but like if you're only doing the work, you're not an executive. You you have to think about the work that needs to be done and that's the the majority of your job. 100% cuz like honestly from when you said that straight away, my first mind my first thought process was just like, "Oh, he's won. He's at one at the game. He's built a team that basically replaces him." But your ability to hire, coach, and develop your trick your team to be better than you to me is just like that's like dream state of a leader, right? But then I can see it from your perception. You're just like, "Okay, well, now I have like five people that are covering all the things like where do now I need to level up to bring them up as well." But like initially I was just like, "Oh, you've won at the game. You've become a leader and you've got all of your VPs that are better than you. Your hiring must be outrageous and your ability to coach them must be world class." Well, I think Listen, you know, when you're selling one of the hottest technology products >> great talent, right? We got lucky there. We We were able to find great great people and get them in and and then they kind of took over if if you gave them the freedom. Yeah, 100%. Your culture, everything at Outreach like the rise of Sales Hacker, just everything in that period was just like world class and it was like best in class, best practice, your culture, everything about like the business was just flying. But I just think it's super interesting now you are where you are to look back and and like I'm just intrigued. I mean, I'm just a nerd at these things. I love it. Awesome, Mark. Well, it's been lovely to have you on. We really, really appreciate it and thank you for dealing with my crazy questions. No problem. That's fine. Thanks Mark. See you.
