# College Graduate to $100k+ Tech Sales Job

- **Publish date**: 2026-04-09T11:28:56Z
- **URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUOkFe96SCQ

## Description

▶Take our free tech sales course: https://www.higherlevels.com/free-training?via=youtube
▶Break Into Tech Sales in 6 Weeks: https://www.higherlevels.com/ascension?via=youtube

#techsales #B2BSales #SaaSSales #SDRJobs #BDRJobs

## Transcript

Hey everybody. Excited to be here with Hunter who just transitioned from an engineering career to tech sales. You got a great job at Ripling and we're going to dive into everything that made you successful. Before I get ahead of myself, maybe share a little bit about your background and what got you looking at tech sales in the first place. >> Yeah, so like Eric mentioned, I had went into engineering. Um I realized that I wasn't the guy that's going to be sitting in the corner coding all the time like I need to talk to people otherwise I'm going to fall asleep. So um what actually led me to sales was an aptitude test. I don't know if you've ever heard of it. You heard of it? >> Yeah. >> So, it's basically a test that tests all your aptitudes. Pretty self-explanatory, but u basically what do you like to do and what do you have a passion for innately um and after the test it said that I like to do consultative work. You know, I find joy in solving problems or fixing issues for other people. So, tech sales was one of the recommended career paths that I would go into and you know, that's kind of what led me here today. No, that's awesome, man. And I know a lot of engineers definitely in your shoes kind of find themselves maybe not fully satisfied with that career. I know you've had quite a few interesting transitions already, which I think is great. You've got some some great perspective. Maybe just taking us to that time where you decide, hey, like it's time to do tech sales. What were you going through? What were some of maybe the shortcomings or pitfalls of your existing career path at the time? >> Yeah, great question. Um, so out of college, I actually was into sales. I did insurance sales, which is kind of like the right of passage for all newly graduates. Um, long story short, I didn't I didn't enjoy it, so I quit. Taught myself how to code, realized I didn't like that, and I tried to pursue program um, sorry, product management. The market was tough. I had no experience. So, I was at a crossroads, and that's kind of when I took the uh, the test. And, you know, I was like, "All right, I feel like I'm good with people. I feel like I'm witty. I can be on the phones. I've had experience with that and with my tech background I'll be able to understand the product underneath the hood kind of like you. So, um it just made sense. >> Yeah, that's awesome, man. And I'm curious too, I'm not sure, you know, with the other career paths that you did. Obviously, you went to college. Um I'm not sure if you've done training before, but when it came specifically to Higher Levels, making this transition into tech sales, what made you say, "Hey, Higher Levels is the best program for me as opposed to the sea of other options out there?" >> Honestly, it was just the content that I was consuming. um you know your face has been everywhere. So you were kind of the easy option to go with and I feel like you were more relatable for me because of your engineering background. So you know after seeing you talk about all the things that I was going through and had a game plan around them I was like all right this guy's credible you know I'm going to buy into it and let's see where this goes. >> Yeah that's awesome man and I know one of the things we were talking about before we started recording is some of the early struggles you had before higher levels. I'm curious maybe just looking specifically at getting interviews and some of those early round interviews maybe painting a picture of like before and after what were some of the early struggles you experienced and then after joining higher levels what were some of the things that really snapped into place for you? >> Yeah, for sure. So when I first started you know I kind of just took shots in the dark. I would listen to a few videos um you know chat GBT all my responses very generic honestly and I was able to get some interviews through referrals to some really good companies and um honestly man I just I just bombed it so hard I was super nervous I was reading the whole time like was not super engaged it was tough but if I hadn't gone through that I probably wouldn't be where I am today and you know I'm glad that I was able to get that experience and fail fast and so so I could iterate and join the higher levels community like I am right now. >> Yeah. And honest honestly failing in those interviews are one of the most valuable teachers and ways to learn as opposed to just content or just hopping on a call here or there with someone in the industry. I think like credit to you like we do not sugarcoat the fact that oftent times like people do not get their first job that they interview for and that's a huge part of the process. I'd love to to focus in on maybe some of those later stage interviews. Obviously it sounds like you kind of solve some of the issues with the early stage. Did you encounter any challenges or things that were unexpected in those mid to final round like manager VP exercise interviews? >> Um, I was interviewing for three companies before I got the offer from Rippling and you know I made it to the final stages of all of them and most of them were pretty pretty much the same. Um, I did have to make a outbound strategy for one of the companies, but other than that, it was mostly just talking about the product, um, the team, the culture, and you know, what I would do to stand out in each of these companies. So, pretty much what you cover in the course is what I experienced. >> Yeah, that's awesome, man. Obviously, glad to hear you're prepared and the result speaks for itself. Ripling, not only a great company, but I know a very strong compensation offer right out of the gate. Maybe just looking back and kind of in closing on this entire experience, any advice you'd give it to call it your younger self? I know there's a lot of people that maybe whether it's engineering or they've just gotten into their first job, they're not sure if it's for them. What would you say to someone like that or again your younger self? >> Yeah, I mean honestly this this kind of sounds cliche to say, but practice makes perfect. You know, if you're super nervous about what to expect, come overprepared. Um, there's this quote that is kind of fleeting my mind, but I think it's if you're not prepared, prepare to fail. And that's kind of how I I interpreted the meeting. So, um, the more interviews that you go through, the more confident you'll be in your answers and the more that you'll actually start to believe what you say. And that comes off like in my interview with Ripling, um, I didn't even make it to the final interview. like the guy hired me on the spot. The senior hiring manager hired me on the spot just because I just came off so confident in what I'm saying and I can deliver. I can do whatever you want me to do. And I also shout out to Luis because I took a piece of his advice and I made a 30-day plan about everything that I would do if I was at Ripling, all the content that I was consuming and basically my cadence lit literally everything to set myself apart. And he brought that up. He was like, "Yeah, that's definitely something that made you stand out and you have the job." He was like, "Oh, wait. I shouldn't have said that. Like, you're supposed to go to negative." So, it was it was a good experience and I appreciate you guys for putting all the effort in for me to succeed. >> No, likewise, man. Appreciate the time and sharing your experience with others. I know obviously we hope to make a ton of valuable content, but I think it's really valuable to hear it from hundreds of different people at this point and their specific needs, their specific challenges, successes, all of that. So, if there's anything else you want to add while we're here, by the way, totally feel free. But, um, yeah, really excited for you and excited to see where the next 12 24 months takes you. >> Yeah, me too, man. Thank you, Eric.
