# High Ticket Sales vs. Software Sales | What Pays More?

- **Publish date**: 2026-04-06T11:01:05Z
- **URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dsmAWQ8VSjg

## Description

▶Take our free tech sales course: https://www.higherlevels.com/free-training?via=youtube
▶Break Into Tech Sales in 6 Weeks: https://www.higherlevels.com/ascension?via=youtube
---For Sales Reps
▶Become a top 0.1% cold caller: https://www.higherlevels.com/cold-call-mastery?via=youtube
▶Master Cold Email: https://www.higherlevels.com/cold-email-engine?via=youtube
▶SDR to AE Accelerator Program: https://www.higherlevels.com/sdr-accelerator?via=youtube
▶AE Mastery Program: https://www.higherlevels.com/ae-mastery?via=youtube
▶AI Sales Accelerator: https://www.higherlevels.com/ai-sales-accelerator?via=youtube

---Founder Led Sales Training and Support
▶https://www.higherlevels.com/founders-course?via=youtube

---B2B Sales Training and Consulting
▶https://www.higherlevels.com/custom-sales-training?via=youtube

#techsales #B2BSales #SaaSSales #SDRJobs #BDRJobs

## Transcript

Hey everyone. Whether you are looking at high ticket sales or software sales, we have made sales content for the last four plus years and actually sold a variety of things. Chris has sold high ticket items. We've both been in tech sales for quite some time now and we wanted to break down the difference. So, you can make the best decision for you whether it is high ticket sales or software sales. Both are super super trendy on social media right now. And uh before I get ahead of myself, Chris, feel free to introduce yourself and kind of lay out what we're going to break down today. >> Sure. Yeah, just quick little 30 second breakdown. I used to not only sell high ticket, but I also led a sales team in high ticket and then obviously we've been in software sales for the past many many years. We've helped thousands of students at this point and actually a lot of people come from a high ticket background and vice versa. So, a lot of experience in this, a lot of breaking down the pros and cons. But for all the people out there that aren't familiar with either and maybe are evaluating both of them or maybe know about one but not the other, software, tech sales, you're usually selling SAS, software platforms, technical solutions. Whereas high ticket, you're selling coaching courses, masterminds, uh real estate, luxury services, anything that's more of a BTOC environment. Whereas in tech sales and software sales, you're going to be selling more in a B2B environment. Um anyhow, we have a lot to cover. The first one we're going to talk about is who makes more. probably why most of you guys have clicked on this video and I know who has more upside potential longterm but Eric I'll throw it over to you maybe you touch on tax sales I'll touch on high ticket >> yeah yeah for sure very common scenario by the way for those of you looking at both so high ticket closers if you come in in year one you can start closing deals right away and you can make a fair amount of money cross six figures there it's always out there the real challenge and what we see too is you're comparing that potential 100 120k job if things go well to a 70 to 100k SDR job, entry-level job in software and tech sales. So, that is like one cliff that we want to break down and give you some clarity on because a lot of times when I speak with high ticket closers that are considering going into software, it's like, hey, I'm making 100 120 right now. I don't want to take a quote unquote step down. This is what I think a lot of people miss. Not even saying that tech and software sales is the way to go. But yes, in year one, you're making 70 to 100K. I think on one hand, and I want to pick your brain, that is a little bit more guaranteed because you have a stronger base salary. You've got benefits of being a full W2 employee at a tech company. Um, but also if things go well, which is an if in either case. So, you've got to perform whether it's high ticket or going into software and tech sales. Usually within a year to 18 months, you're promoted to account executive at which point your salary is hovering around 150k a year in software sales. And that's 50% of that is guaranteed like every two weeks paycheck. The other 50% is commissionbased. But now where it gets really interesting, and that's great by the way, like 150k a year, still pretty solid. But let's say you do a year at that entry- level role, you overattain quota, and you have a 75k salary, but you ended up making 90. Year two, you go in as an AE, you've got 150k, you're killing it, you overattain on that, you end up pulling in 180. Year, I would say three to three and a half is where you might get now promoted to a mid-market or corporate role. Again, this is like year three. And now the salaries there generally range from I would say on the lower side 200k and that's 100 base 100 commission to on the higher side for a mid-market role I've seen some approaching 250 where it's 125k base salary and 125k commission and that's within about 3 to four years if things are going really well let alone some really you know strong performers promote to the next level above that is enterprise where your enterprise account executive role generally you get there between five and seven years into your career. Now, I would say the industry average as a starting point is 300k a year, 150k base salary, and 150k paid on commissions. So, that is one thing I think people often miss. And again, I'm not going to answer the high ticket side because you're much more wellversed on how much people actually earn there. But in some ways, it is a quote unquote step back or lower starting point. But in my opinion, the average upside and the average tech sales rep ends up making way more than the high ticket individual. though I know there's high ticket people that are absolutely killing it. So I want to pick your brain. >> Yeah. I think it's important to to break down like how people get paid because it's very different. In software sales, tech sales, you have a lot more stability because you actually have a base salary. In high ticket, it's purely commissionbased. So that's good but also bad in some cases. It's very marketing dependent. So it's very very important that you whatever product or offering or service that you're selling for that you're actually selling um it has to be bulletproof. It has to be tight. Um, and you're essentially just operating off of a mathematical equation. You have to close at a 20% close rate or more than that typically. Um, and then you'll get paid anywhere between 10 to 20% of every single sale. And the levers that will typically allow you to go up and down will be if you stay with a company for long enough, your percentage commission percentage might go up a little bit. So you might go from 10 to 15%, 15 to 20% um, depending on how long you stay with the company and obviously the ticket size. So, if you're selling a program where you typically start out is a $5 $6,000 program or service or whatever it is, um you'll start there and then you kind of move into the the higher value ladder offerings which can be any anywhere from like 15 to all the way up to $50,000 is what I've seen. I've seen some people sell more than that and obviously if you're in the very niche markets like selling, you know, luxury charter jets and stuff like that, you definitely go above that. But it's I think it's important to touch on the fact that you have a whole lot less stability in high ticket sales, which can be good, but also can be bad if you're selling for, you know, a really really strong marketed offering that just has everything down and you're just getting a bunch of qualified meetings on your calendar. Sure, you'll make more money. It's also es and flows. Um, but I do agree with your evaluation or your assessment. you will typically have not only more stability but also more upside in a software sales role. If we're looking at like, okay, you're at a good software sales company, you're at a good high ticket offer, um I think it it typically goes to the software sales side. >> Yep. Well said. >> And jumping over to the next one, um which one gives you more credibility? What do you think on that one? >> Yeah, it's it's it's two different worlds. So, I think again, you know, I don't want to just blindly say, hey, don't do high ticket. There are high ticket people that absolutely kill it and build a a very strong brand for themselves. I think to your point and and a lot of what you said, it's very dependent on the environment that you walk into. Do they have good marketing where meetings are set up consistently? Do they have any shred of training, which is something we hear a lot on the the high ticket side. It's kind of feast or famine. You know, they'll hire a bunch of people because it's commission only and the top 10% are living like kings, but the bottom 90 fail out, right? So there's more infrastructure in place on the software side, generally speaking, to have that training in place. But with that, I also think the quote unquote credibility, especially if you work at a market brand for like a tech leader, it's easier to get a job and progress your career just optically. If you put in two years at a very strong tech company or three years or five years, making a jump to a next company who wants to promote you, like it's very common, you might get into tech sales and this can kind of be a con to be honest, is you do really well your first year, you get a promotion. Well, now you're an AE and you've been there for two and a half years and you've been killing it, but they didn't open any any headcount for you to promote. Your ability to go externally and have a company say, "Hey, you can't promote within your company, but we'll hire you for an enterprise role at our company." that is much higher in the sense that that I I feel there's more opportunity having limited exposure to the high ticket side. And last thing I'd say on that, again, want to pick your brain on both, but with the high ticket side, this is that kind of conundrum I see a lot of people hit, which is like, hey, I'm making 120. I had my best year last year and I made 150, but I don't know, something about the company changed. You know, they hired way too many reps now. I'm not getting as many meetings. And your alternative at that point, while you could go to another program, is probably jumping to another job that's going to pay you between 100 and 150. Whereas in tech sales, again, like I said, if you have a good 3 to fouryear run, you might be making 200 at your current company and have a company reach out and be willing to pay you 350 to jump to their company. But again, you know, the grass is always greener. That sounds great. That doesn't always work out that way on the software sales side, but again, want to pick your brain on on both. >> Yeah. No, I agree. I think the long term goes to software sales just because you're building a legitimate career. And I think also the perception of being a software sales rep is a lot more positive than selling coaching, masterminds. I mean, let's not be blind to or real estate, any of those things. It's it's kind of I wouldn't say looked down upon, but when we're when you say that you're selling software or a tech sales rep, you're definitely like you have some clout compared to when you just say that you're selling high ticket. It sounds good sometimes, but um I think the credibility aspect of it and if you do want to branch out of sales at some point, you definitely have a lot more credibility and leverage being in a software sales position. And you can definitely jump around. Um I think in both actually, you can you can jump around from one program to the next, especially if we're talking just about like isolating coaching. I think the cool thing is the coaching world is so small in a way that everybody kind of knows each other. So, if you do a good job and if you are one of those top and didn't really get to touch on this too much, but when you first start out as a high ticket sales rep, you don't actually have to go through the SDR role or appointment setting role. Sometimes you do that, but typically you actually just jump straight in there and you start closing deals. So you might make a little bit more um if you're just performing at a benchmark rate right off the bat, but then you kind of hit equilibrium, but for the people that really really crush it, they can easily make 3 400k. Um and those are the people that get a lot of opportunities. They can jump around from one offer to the next. The issue with high ticket is that it's very very marketing dependent. Again, so to your point, something could change the very next day. Like let's say Meta changes their algorithm or how you know ads are being derived and all of a sudden the entire offer just breaks. Your you know appointments no longer qualified. You're not closing anymore. Things can go dire really really fast where it's there's a lot more sustainability to being at a software company. So you can stay at those companies for a lot longer. That's not to say that there aren't coaching you know offers and companies that stay around for a very long time. But I will say it's it's a lot more rare than what you see in established software companies. >> Yeah. >> Um day-to-day, how does it differ? Um kind of a big one. I can jump in on that one. >> So the biggest thing is going to be >> how that you're being given deals and just how you operate about and this will change too like if you're an STR and you're just starting out, you typically don't have to like jump on calls with prospects or run sales cycles. Um obviously once you become an a account executive that will change a little bit more. You'll actually depending on if you're net new depending on you know if you're account management kind of hybrid you will be given some deals. You'll be hunting for deals. In high ticket sales you will basically just be given appointments that are again coming from marketing. So there's going to be a paid traffic funnel that's basically driving a bunch of traffic. The leads are going to get qualified and then they'll end up on your calendar. you just show up to the meetings and you're expected to close these meetings um pretty much in one or two calls. Most of the time you want to close them on on one call, which is I think probably one of the biggest differences between that and software sales. I think if you're selling SMB, you probably can get away with closing deals like on the first call sometimes, but it is rare. It's not like the norm by any means. So, you're selling very very differently. You're selling more based on urgency, based on emotion. again you're selling to BTOC like you're you're selling to individuals most of the time or like a CEO or you know just one person whereas in tech sales you're selling to a committee so that obviously adds a couple of extra steps a couple of extra layers um and yeah I think in in tech sales you are a little bit more well-rounded so you have it's not just you're relying on whatever marketing is giving you actually are expected to go out and hunt for deals like when you're R. Sure, sometimes you might get some warmer leads, but you will typically have to go out there and actually hunt for colder leads. Um, you know, book those for an AE. Once you become an AE, you're still doing those things. So, anyway, that was a lot. Um, but I don't know if you want to sprinkle something on top of that. Hopefully, that covered most of it. >> No, definitely. And and I feel like too, you know, naturally, the last, you know, however many years of our career has been in tech sales. I don't want to come off as purely biased. And if there's one con I would say starting out in tech sales, the SDR level is an entry-level role. Like you are fundamentally working for basically everyone else around you. Whereas in high ticket closing, you're closing deals right away. And this is true once you start closing business in uh software sales and tech sales. But once you start closing business, if you're winning and you're closing deals, you get a lot of flexibility and freedom. But I will say that, you know, that that first entry level role at the SDR side is very much an entry-level role. I would say it's probably a step down in the flexibility and freedom that you have in that high ticket role. But again, if you start to do well, um you you can really crush it. I think to some of the points that you made, the day-to-day early on is going to feel like a grind. Probably in both, but especially as an SDR, you're making 50 to 100 calls a day, sending probably another 50 emails or LinkedIn messages or whatever to try and drum up some business. as you start to systematize that it actually there's a lot of tools that you can use um and in a lot of ways you can systematize your work and I think top performing reps in either path do this well and you start to earn your time back but I think where you really start to separate skill-wise and with the day-to-day and something I'm sure we'll break down throughout this this conversation is the skills you develop running a more quote unquote complex sales cycle I don't want to sound snoody but this this is a huge difference I'm sure we'll highlight and break into is when you're selling high ticket Generally speaking, pending the product, one, two, maybe three calls, right? As you become an account executive and you're closing business on a day-to-day, you've got to lead deal cycles that are anywhere from three to six to at the enterprise level, again, that's 5 to seven years into your career. We're talking 12 to 18month deal cycles where you're talking to dozens, if not hundreds of people at the company, you're flying on site, you're having to quarterback, quote unquote, a deal where you have an engineer come in that leads the more technical aspects of this deal cycle. And I I can definitely break that down more, but my point being is I think you become much more versatile in a tech sales role if you gut it out and make it to that 3 to 5 year role in a way that you're not going to have in high ticket. So high ticket, you're not flying to Wall Street and going into Morgan Stanley headquarters and leading an on-site presentation, deep diving into their problems. And again, like whatever lifestyle you want is better. like high ticket closers. If you're making 300K from your laptop and you can be anywhere because the owner of the company doesn't care and you're killing it, that could be a great path. But I think just overall, you know, being entrepreneurial, granted, you know, again, maybe we're biased and and it feels that way in this video, but I think the skills you get from 5 years in high ticket, like in my mind, from my impression, you've got your workflow dialed in and you kind of just do the same thing and you make a lot of money because you're killing it. Your owner of the company trusts you and sends all the best leads your way. That's a great scenario. But in tech sales, if you want to be an entrepreneur, if you want to build something where you're selling to other businesses, it would be much more difficult to come from that high ticket environment and then start a company where you're selling to healthcare companies or selling to other tech companies or whatever it may be. So, I can I can break that down more, but uh that's my two cents. Yeah, >> I think you you touched on it really well. And I think think about it this way. You're solving more complex problems when you're in software sales, whereas in high ticket, you're pretty much just given a script and you're expected to execute on it and you're just kind of rinse and repeating. I think the the top performers find their own ways and systems and uh there's definitely a lot of similar traits. I would say anybody who's a top performer in high ticket would be a really good software sales rep as well, but at that point you're you're making enough money and u maybe to defend high ticket sales as well because we've kind of been like very software sales which is the you know there's a reason why I went into software sales as well. But I will say um one thing that you touched on which was the freedom aspect like being able to just travel the world like a lot of people who want to travel and you know who want to live that nomad lifestyle and just take calls from wherever. Obviously you still have to present yourself professionally and so forth but it's a whole lot easier to to plug into because you're just given a script you jump on a Zoom call. It's it's very simple to plug into but it also the ceiling for it is kind of what's limiting you as well. Whereas in software sales, you're kind of held to a higher standard. You're expected to think on your own to find solutions to some of these problems, which I think that's where the opportunities come in to move up to get more responsibility and so forth. Um, so yeah, that's pretty much the day-to-day, which is easier. Um, I would probably say just going off of a whim, like high ticket is probably the easier thing just to go off of my my tangent. Again, you're just plugged into something. um you follow a script, it's it's really not that hard to get the drift of whereas software sales definitely a lot harder and there's a lot of variables that aren't accounted for. Um which again both good and bad and if you've listened to the last like 20 minutes uh that's a pretty good breakdown. I don't know if you want to add something to that. >> No, totally. And I I think if anyone's watching this too that is already in high ticket, you know, you know, kind of tying it into this question is, you know, it's like I've had people say, "Hey, I've been doing high ticket closing for 2 to 3 years. How do I get an enterprise account executive role?" And that is like there's just no way because if you're used to this very short transaction and then you you go to an enterprise role where you've got to lead a 12 to 18month deal cycle on complex technology. I would say in that sense high ticket is probably easier on on one sense like you can plug and play to your point. um especially if it's a coaching offering or whatnot, you don't necessarily have to have some deep technical knowledge and and you don't need that in software or tech sales to be clear. But if you've never like been in a technical environment, maybe you did or did not go to college or studied marketing or communications, learning about cloud infrastructure, like you don't need to know how to write code, but you still need to know a lot. And there's a big learning curve there that's really difficult when you first start because on one hand there is probably a predefined playbook. There is some decent training and structure in place. But when you actually get people live on a conversation it's not about like hey what are your goals? What would you want to accomplish with this coaching? It's like hey what tech stack are you deploying? Oh you're using Kubernetes in a hybrid configuration and you have you know disaster recovery set up in multi-reion across two continents. Got it. you know, like that is a bit of a learning curve and it's really hard to balance, especially early on if you're if you're inadequate on the tech side. You've got a lot to learn there and that can impact how you show up and how easy it is to have a natural conversation. The flip side is, you know, just because you're technical does not mean you're good at sales. So, if you don't have any natural sales chops, it's a really hard thing to balance the two where, as again, I'm not going to sit here and say high ticket sales is easy, but there's less outside of the sales conversation that you have to learn. Whereas tech there's just like if you're not willing to commit yourself to learn quite frankly on the surface what looks like some boring sometimes like Kubernetes deployments um AI you know LLMs like all the ins and outs there it may be difficult for you to have a successful career if you're not willing to commit 6 to 12 months to to really learn that stuff. So >> maybe to add some more substance to it like I think it's also personality based like it's a lot more chaotic. gets a lot more emotionbased when you're selling um high ticket which yeah actually this is a good distinction. If you are more of a natural salesperson you might thrive more in that environment whereas if you are more structured actually a little bit more of an analytical mindset. It's ironic people think before they get into software sales that they have to have the other skill set which is like to be able to like you know move decisions based on urgency which is actually the polar opposite. you have a very very there is a standardized process for how you evaluate software today and it's a lot more tactful. It's not you know like if I give you this discount will you sign right now? Give me your credit card. Like that's what you're going to be dealing with in high ticket. And um I think if you are a person that's naturally very outgoing who just has a natural flare for sales, you might do really well in that environment. Um so that might come easier to you. Whereas, if you're not that analytical, if you're not that good at following kind of a structure and a rigid process, I I wouldn't say software sales gets to the point where it's just so overly complex, even if you don't know um you know, software or if you haven't coded before, it's not to the point where you can't figure it out if you don't have that prerequisite experience, but you do have to follow a whole lot more structure than you would in a high ticket sales environment. Yeah. So, >> yeah, I would just reemphasize, too, I mean, that's a common critique of tech sales. I feel like from the outside looking in, people are like, "Sales is sales." like tech isn't that special and to some extent I'd agree I I I'd agree like it's not the most complicated thing but there is a learning curve there that I would say most industries do not have that it is more complex like I'm sure if you're selling real estate or whatever it may be there's complexities there's laws there's rules you need to understand about how that regulatory environment works but on the tech side again it's not that knowing the super low-level tech stuff is good in fact it would probably hurt your ability to sell but there is just a level you're going to have to be really uncomfortable for a while and feel like you don't know what the f you're talking about on the phone. That is is unique to tech and tech sales as as a whole. >> Yeah, I think you graduate into it too in tech sales which makes it a little bit easier to manage whereas in high ticket you're just thrown into the wolves and you're like here's your script just go execute like you need to close that 20%. Whereas in software sales like I don't want to undermine either that when you're an enterprise rep or a strategic rep. I think if you get tossed into that it's like it's really really hard. Yeah. So I think the cool thing about software sales is you kind of start gradually. You start selling smaller deals that are still kind of transactional where there is probably a degree of that emotionbased selling that you have in uh in high ticket but then you start moving up. You start getting you know more and more multi-threading that becomes relevant. You have to kind of work work your way up selling to a committee working your way up inside of an organization and then the end yeah you're just selling to you know massive corporations and it's a whole different sale. Um but yeah that was solid. Which one is more stable? >> Yeah. >> Um, do you want to touch on that? >> Sure. I mean, I I'll say I I'll just purely do the the software and tech side, especially I think there's a key distinction between working at a very large corporation and also a fast growing startup. In either case, people do get fired for not hitting quota. I do think it's a little bit more relaxed from my understanding versus high ticket. Whereas like if you're hitting 70 to 80% of your number, however, you're still in like the top half of your team. You've built a really good internal brand at your company, they know you're putting in the work, and maybe you have a weaker territory than the number one rep. And that explains a lot of the difference. On some sense, I think it's a bit more stable both in the immediate job that you won't get cut in like two or three months and also, god forbid you do lose your job, there's so many tech companies that you can jump to. you may not be able to increase your salary and may have to take a temporary like parallel or slight step down but that safety I think is a little bit better than my understanding of high ticket and last thing I'd say again it's also more the progression side like when you consider the ability to progress and parlay like my my again my amateur understanding I I would value your input if you spend 5 to 10 years in B2B sales and you want to make a transition and work for another company in a different capacity because you have so much B2B experience. I think the ability to transition, either person is going to be able to transition, but transition into a higher paid job or higher value quote unquote position at a large company is going to be much easier than if you did 5 to 10 years in high ticket sales and now you want to go more into a formal B2B environment. But that's my two cents. I'll I'll pick your brain. >> No, I think that's going on. I think there there's several sides to this. I think the first one is you're pretty much just part of a mathematical equation. So, it's very very binary. Like you have to hit at a 20% close rate or more. Otherwise, the entire formula just breaks down. And since everything is derived from those marketing dollars that are being actively spent, you have to hit those targets. Otherwise, you're just not a valuable sales rep. I mean, there is some room for negotiation. There's definitely, you know, rorowass and and variables that means that you can you don't have to necessarily close at that, but obviously if you're selling for a good coaching program, that is the target. That is the benchmark. If you're not hitting those numbers, you will get cut pretty quick. Now, the other side of that is you can probably once you have high ticket sales experience, once you've sold for, you know, one, especially if we're just talking about coaching in general, since it is a pretty tight-knit space, you can typically go and jump into another offer pretty quickly. um for the the programs that are scaling really fast, the cool thing about that is that they're always looking for sales reps, the the churn is high, but if you finally establish yourself and you get into the hang of it, you'll find that it's actually pretty easy to execute on because again, you just have a script. Um you kind of will find out like how do I deviate away from the script? How do I make it my own? How do I sound confident doing this? You get into your own habits of doing things. So, is it is it less stable? Yes. But is it easier to get a job if something does happen? Yeah. So, it's hard. It's kind of like hard to break that down because in software sales, you know, you definitely there's less or or there's more ambiguity when you're an SDR for instance. You're not directly tied to, you know, this deal closed right here and based on that you're going to get paid. >> Sometimes there is a small component of that, but it's a whole lot more ambiguous in that state. And if you do get laid off as, you know, a software sales rep or an STR or an AE, it's typically a lot harder to find a new role. But once you're in that role, yeah, you you pretty much are there for a little bit longer than that. So, both sides of the coin. Uh what are you more, you know, what's better for your personality? I think people who generally are in high ticket sales, they're faster paced, higher risk. You know, getting let go is is pretty normal sometimes, which kind of sounds crazy, whereas it's different in in software sales. >> Y >> um cool. Which one makes you a better seller? This is uh the final question. Um, do you want me to go first? >> Sure. Yeah. >> Okay. I mean, I've done both. So, I would say I think from a well-rounded standpoint, um, obviously I think having exposure to both just is really, really beneficial cuz there's definitely times where I think back to the, you know, the selling situations or the environments or deals that I had in high ticket that definitely help you out. Like, it's a lot higher pressure. It's a lot more uncomfortable. It's kind of like you're asking somebody for their credit card like on the phone. they literally just met you. It's a really weird and strange environment, but it is one that, you know, does draw a lot of parallels in a lot of other verticals and industries like construction, which is probably one of the biggest industries in the world, like very similar to that environment. Um, but I do think that when I think of the holistic skill set that I've gained from software sales, I think that I've gained I've learned to sell in a way that doesn't feel so pushy. And I think to me personally, that is a lot more valuable. Like I sell more based on empathy and you know being a trusted adviser. So I'm not necessarily naturally I think gifted in trying to get somebody over the finish line whereas there might not always be a willingness. I didn't like that too much which is an expectation when you're selling in high ticket. Sometimes you just kind of have to push through and there and that's where kind of it gets a bad rep. Um, but yeah, I would say having done both, I personally think software sales, but again, this is a personality based thing for me. I think I'm going to carry with me the things that I learned in software sales into just about anything else that I would do. But anyhow, >> no, I I I tend to agree. What I would say to the person that's on the fence about deciding is this is it is very possible in a standard tech sales track and as an SDR job. Like we mentioned, there's maybe a bit more rigidity, a bit more entrylevel that you have to deal with the first year, but it's very common. Not that I'm actively encouraging you to do anything that would risk your employment, but a lot of tech sales reps have side hustles, whether they're building their own thing and or it wouldn't be impossible for 20 hours a week to also close high ticket in the mornings or evenings around your day job. So, if you're unsure, I would typically lean towards tech sales because you get some recognition if you can break into a decent company. Like we mentioned, the tech ecosystem is probably overall a little bit more stable and long lasting than an individual high ticket company, which may change every 3 to 5 years. Then from there, if you want to go into high ticket, you can dabble. Whereas tech sales, there there's it's very rare to find like a strong part-time situation. Like you're pretty much a W2. This is your full-time job. This is what you do. And so if you don't like that, it's much easier to go to high ticket than the reverse. The only other caveat to that I would say is like if you are locked in as an entrepreneur in some way, shape or form, you have a real affinity for real estate or you know high ticket closing coaching programs or or whatever it may be and you have a really strong affinity to that. I would do that and that's going to give you the skill set. It you you got to look at both as like what am I going to learn on the tech sales track? It's a little bit more stable, a little bit more defined. I can learn a lot more about a B2B environment and how to sell complex solutions to complex businesses. And if you want to start your own company that's going to sell to businesses, I would definitely lean that way. But you're still going to learn a lot of individual tactics. You're certainly going to get much more of a crash course on high ticket of direct to consumer, direct to individual. And as one example of many, like if you wanted to, if you had a really strong vision of building and actually had some traction with like a direct to consumer brand, I think the skill set you would learn in high ticket while building that brand on the side might be more valuable. But I would say for the average person, again maybe I'm biased, feel free to comment below. We do watch these ourselves, is 80 to honestly 90 plus percent of people, I think you would be better served starting in tech sales. If you don't like it, it's much more easy to test high ticket and potentially transition that way than spending two to three years in high ticket to find out you don't like it. Then you've potentially got to take a step back to then start in tech sales. But I don't know if you agree or any nuance there, but yeah. You know, I think and I think it also depends on, you know, do you want to do sales as a career? Like, is this a a long-term thing? Because I think that probably is going to be a pretty important factor. If you just want to get in there and honestly just have reps, probably high ticket sales is better. If you know you're going to build your business like a year from now, then I I do think there's value in that, too. But I think most people who are going into this and who are evaluating these two different things, they probably have a longer term outlook. And that's where I think software sales just outshines high ticket sales. I don't even think that there really is. Sure, if you do end up being an absolute killer, um, but again, the distribution curve is so skewed on that front, like it's a lot more probable and likely that you move up, that you, you know, get to like you hear about people making $300,000 in tech sales and it sounds kind of crazy, but that's very, very doable. >> It's common. >> Yeah, it's very, very common. It's very like those are the standard OT rates for enterprise strategic reps. They they've actually gone up quite a bit. So, I think if you have a long-term sales outlook, I would definitely say software sales. There's more thing I'm there's more things I'm going to break down here in just a second, but yeah, I think it just depends on what you want to do and how you want to break it down. In my mind, I think you should go tech sales if you want long-term career leverage, if you want structured growth, stability, credibility, you know, if you do end up, let's say you don't want to stay in tech sales or in sales in general, you want to do something else, I think that having that on your background looks a whole lot better. Interestingly enough, actually high ticket sales reps kind of look up to software sales reps. Like software sales is kind of this like mysterious thing and it's it's kind of it has a weird perception because people think that you're like, you know, selling the software but also showing exactly what the software does that you're expected to like know the ins and outs of every single soft or every single part and nuance of the software. That's not the case. But um in in general, you will be looked upon much more positively after being a software sales rep than a high ticket sales rep. Um, and if you want to become a more well-rounded and respected seller, I think you go high ticket if you want fast cash potential, like fewer calls, faster closes. If you just want to get in there, get reps a lot faster, higher energy, like a lot more of that emotionbased um, selling. If if you thrive in that, that's definitely something that probably is a good calling for you. Um, and obviously if you want less corporate structure, maybe more of that nomad lifestyle, then might be a better fit. >> Yeah. >> But yeah, that was pretty deep. I don't know if you want to top it off with anything. Well, I'd just say like one like hopefully this video has been extremely resourceful and helpful for you. It's really easy to get caught up in the hype and that's really the basis of this channel. Like we were caught up in it when we broke into tech sales and and did sales our own careers and part of the reason we started this channel is to really give like a no fluff authentic take and I hope you can feel that if you've made it this far. Also, if you are exploring both careers, we have a free lesson that lays this out. It's like super detailed hour and a half long of tech sales what that career is about in much more detail. But again, at the end of the day, I think either decision is right. And really, like we've always made content in in either case that you go. It's for the person who's looking at tech sales or or sales as a career with like a five plus year lens. You don't have to do it forever, but if you're just going to try and do it for a year and then think you're going to start a billion-dollar unicorn, it's usually not how it goes. Um, so I think in either way, you know, if you're taking sales seriously, if it's something that you want to make a lot of money and and learn skills maybe before going out on your own and you're looking at it with a five plus year lens, if you do a lot of research, videos like this, etc., and you feel strongly one way or the other, go with it. You know, you you can always adjust. It's not like, you know, it's it's not a horrible situation to have to go from 120k high ticket role to a 100k tech sales role for one year. It's, you know, that that's a very first world problem. Um, but I think, yeah, hopefully this helped a lot. And uh I don't know if you have any other thoughts but >> yeah, we'll see you guys in the next one.
