# From Technical Role to Tech Sales | Innocent's Career Shift

- **Publish date**: 2026-04-02T12:00:49Z
- **URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WSgsEcv3PVI

## Description

▶Take our free tech sales course: https://www.higherlevels.com/free-training?via=youtube
▶Break Into Tech Sales in 6 Weeks: https://www.higherlevels.com/ascension?via=youtube

#techsales #B2BSales #SaaSSales #SDRJobs #BDRJobs

## Transcript

Hey everyone, excited to be here with Innocent who just transitioned into tech sales. A unique situation and I think a really valuable deep dive today because you were actually already at ClickUp in a completely different role and then transitioned internally into a sales role which I know is something we have a lot of people asking about. They're on a career. They're in a company where they want to go sales. This is going to be an awesome deep dive. I won't get ahead of myself. Innocent um appreciate you taking the time to join today. Maybe share a little bit about your background. What got you looking at changing to tech sales in the first place? >> Yeah, awesome. Thank you, Eric. Thank you for the introduction. Um, as you said, I I was lucky enough to be able to break in at the company that I'm in. Just to take a couple steps back, I've been at ClickUp now for close to 5 years. We'll be 5 years in April. Um, I moved, if you notice the accent, I'm actually South African and I moved here in October of 2019. Um, just before CO. So, I was stuck on the couch doing nothing. I couldn't get a work permit. UCIS was backed up. So, I was just a sitting duck for the first couple months of my marriage. And I just started tinkering, tinkering on the web, spent a lot of time on YouTube, which we'll get to um in the future, which is how I found you guys. But spent a lot of time on YouTube and got really interested in coding. And so, started coding. Started teaching myself how to code Python early on in 2020. After a couple months of that, one of my wife's friends was like, "Hey, there's a coding boot camp. I've heard you mention it before. there's a coding boot camp at our college if you wanted to do that. Looked into it, did a six-month coding boot camp and shortly after that got hired at um ClickUp in technical support. So at technical support in 2021, I was there for well now until November this year. So I was there for four and a half years. I promoted four times and I ended up in a position called a technical impact manager. Internally that's what it's called, but externally it's a technical program manager. And so I would I was allocated three engineering teams. Um I ended off with automations, imports and integrations at a stage. I also did our whiteboarding and our dashboard dashboarding features. So basically I was embedded in those teams and I was responsible for cross collaboration between our engineering product teams and our support teams. Um, early on I, you know, I kind of, the best way to describe it is I kind of hit the ceiling in terms of available promotions to me outside of leadership. Um, which I probably would have pursued if the opportunity came. But it started to really dawn on me that, hey, I've got a growing family. I've got two kids. I live in California. Life's expensive land. And so, I need to figure out a way to allow myself to earn more money as I grow in my career. And the highest leverage thing that I could find was sales. Um, and so the funny thing is the sales conversation happened at the beginning of January with one of my wife's family members who's a VP at Salesforce. And I was asking him for career advice. And I was like, like I was describing. I'm like, I'm stuck in my role. Like I've kind of hit a ceiling. I'm considering product management, but really I want financial growth and to be able to continue climbing up the corporate ladder. Like what do you think? and he put me in touch with a bunch of his friends who were product managers. Um, and at the end of the call, he like as a throwaway line, he was like, "Hey, you know, have you ever considered sales?" I was like, "Um, I haven't actually. Like I my idea of what sales is is not something that I want to be dealing with Monday to Friday, right?" Like I had no idea about what sales looked like and all of that. And so after that call, I started exploring tech sales only to find out that through friends, family, I know like eight account executives who are doing really well at the companies that are that they're at and are really loving it. And being able to plug into those people and speak to them and get a really good idea of what tech sales looked like and what it was was really helpful. And so that began my sales journey. And so from there, like I said earlier, I'm a YouTube fiend. I'm always on YouTube learning new things. I like to dig in. If I find a topic or a subject that I like, I'm going to spend all of my time on YouTube learning about it. And so Salesforce conversation with my uncle or my wife's uncle and immediately I'm like, "Okay, let's go see what YouTube has to offer." And I'm I think you guys were like the second or third video that showed up. I liked your branding, so I clicked into one of your videos and the rest is history. I mean within about a month of finding your videos I found the higher levels course signed up immediately no questions asked was able to expense it for professional development at work and I was in tech sales ascension and that's how I got to that's how I started the journey but I'm sure we'll we'll discuss more on the finer details as well with you. Yeah, that's awesome. Really, really great context and I'd love to probe into as well because you know I myself made a career change. I didn't even have kids or live in California and this is like a very common thing where yeah I mean anywhere around the world but certainly if you live in like New York City, you live in California, you've got obligations whether it's a mortgage andor kids, you know, to the extent that you're able like just take us through that mindset of like what is the risk you perceive? What ultimately made you decide to make that move? I'm not even blindly endorsing sales, but I just know I think a lot of people in this situation would benefit kind of just hearing through your thought process and experience making that change. >> Right. So, so the biggest thing for me was upside, right? So, I'm in a role now where don't get me wrong, I love my role. I love my team. I worked in a great environment. Like, shout out technical support at ClickUp, really great people. But I had to realistically look at where is the highest financial upside for me in a role and career that I could take on where my efforts, my hard work, which are things that I'm already doing in my current role, would be able to result in me getting a bigger paycheck. The obvious answer there is sales. And so for me, once that decision was made in my mind of like, okay, I want to get into sales. What what does that look like realistically for someone who's 5 years into a career is technical and is now making a complete 180 switch from where they are to where I I I sort of thought like this is where I want to be. I want to be an an enterprise account executive so on and so forth. And so I had to weigh up a couple things. And like the first thing I thought to myself is like, okay, if I can get an SMB account exec position financially, kind of that gets me in at the level that I'm at or a little bit above or just a little bit below. So financially, I'm not taking as big a hit um as it would be if I was starting as an entry- level SDR. So at ClickUp, we break up the SDR and BDR role. SDR is true entry level and the role that I've got is an enterprise BDR and so immediately I started just thinking through like okay how do I get this position how do I network within my company to be able to come in as account executive got a lot of push back good push back good feedback not so much on ability and all of that but people want you to have the BDR experience and have that front line on the calls all day because it builds a really strong muscle memory on how to take rejection, how to handle dealing within building pipeline, which are things that we learn in your course. And so then I had to look at the financial aspect of like, okay, if I make this leap and I go to enterprise BDR, I'm going to be taking a pay cut. What does that pay cut look like? What does that look like financially? So immediately there, there's a risk of I'm going to be losing 10 to 15k on my annual salary. Is it worth it? So if you drag from enterprise BDR to SMB AE to mid-market to to enterprise, the jump in salary for me, it just made sense to take that risk now and take that leap of faith now. And so I did that and and I was fortunate enough to get the role. Um, and so when I balance the risk and reward for me, fortunately, I'm at a company that promotes really aggressively. And that was the final check of my boxes of like I can take a 15 15k pay cut if I can work hard and be up for promotion within 6 months. I don't know if that answers your question. >> Yeah. No, absolutely. And I think it's a great consideration. And I mean it's there's no one exact answer to any of this but I think to your point you've got such a great track record there and really this is leading into my next question as well which is you're obviously in an environment you've seen that they promote other people you've seen and to your point kind of quantified the worst case scenario it makes sense which I agree with to move forward you're at also what we haven't said is like one of the hottest AI companies probably in the world right now uh which is a great place to be from a a selling perspective as well but I'm curious too for that person that's watching this maybe thinking about that internal move or something of that nature as well. I know obviously we can talk about interviews and exercises and all of that when it comes to like the actual internal piece of this. I'd love you to share your experience again to the extent that you're able of like what were the conversations you had to start internally to even build awareness around your desire to make this move. What are some of the things you did that you feel like really made people take you seriously as opposed to like I'm just kind of exploring this like dipping my toes. I I'm curious what that was like kind of just navigating the internal structure of your company and making the move. >> Man, it was interesting. So So very early on I I respect the leadership in my department and I've actually become friends with a lot of the people a the person that hired me at ClickUp and a lot of the people that have managed me in ClickUp. I have personal relationships outside of work with them. So, the first thing I realized was I need to let them know what I'm thinking because I don't want it to be a surprise if I get a role and I'm jumping departments and they were like, "Wait, what what's going on? We thought you were going product management like you know, you kind of blindsided us." And so, the first conversations I had were with my leadership. The reason I did that is that when you start internal conversations and you start networking internally, you never know who knows somebody. And through to that point, I spoke to my director and I was like, "Hey, like I'm looking to make a transition into sales and he's like,"I don't know anybody, but I do know one of the sales directors and managers of like the SMBA. He's got a team of like five or six SMBAs. I can put you in touch with him." And that began kind of a domino effect of me ending up I think I spoke to every sales role. I spoke to a person in every sales role in our company over the last year. The reason I did that is there's no better information than first one-to-one information from people. You get a good really good sense and a really good feel of a department and you can ask really good questions around like what does this look like as a career when you speak to individuals in that role. So by the end of it, I think I'd spoken to one SDR, two BDRs, um, two SMB AES, one mid-market AE, and funnily enough, the first conversation I had was this after speaking to my director, I also spoke to an enterprise AE who I knew through personal relationships also at our company and then spoke to sales directors and sales VPs and these this is just how Iworked internally. I just figured out like, okay, I should speak to this person. Um, I think the end conversations I had, like we' spoken about earlier, was with the hiring manager that I'm now going to be working with. Iworked with one of the SMB AES and they were like, "Hey, you should speak to um I wonder if I can mention names here, but we can cut this part out. You should speak." >> Um, and I reached out to to one of our sales directors and I was like, "Hey, I'm interested." And we end that turned into a really great conversations that covered a really great conversation that covered my why sales what's motivating it are you willing to make the pay are you willing to take the pay cut and why would you want to do this at ClickUp and that was just an organic conversation that we had that I managed to book on the calendar with him through relationships that I was building while I was networking internally. So, I tell people a lot and I've spoken to some of the guys on the higher levels um in some of the boot camps and higher levels and I tell them all the time, network, network network. >> Yeah. >> And people hire people who they know and who they like. Like that's the that's the reality. Of course, you can do it without networking internally, but if you really want to make one of the one of the sales directors for one of our SMB teams told me, since you're networking internally, if positions open up, you want yourself to be the top candidate before interviewing has has always begun. And I took that information and just ran with it. >> Um, yeah, I don't know if that answers your question. >> No, totally. I mean, that's incredible. And I just want to highlight to everyone out there as well, I think a lot of people make it like this life or death decision like okay there's a job listing do I risk it all and it's like no you put in ground work 3 6 12 months in advance like building these connections now and also I think to be fair it's like you ended up deciding that sales was the best for you but you can also do this and maybe you have 10 conversations and realize you don't want to do sales and you're actually better informed than just kind of like >> okay I'm just going to apply and then you get an offer and now it's weird you don't know if you actually want to do it. So, I just want to highlight like how much work you put in. That's that's incredible. So, >> thank you. >> Yeah, I appreciate that. And and again, it it just comes down to once I understood what sales entailed and what the career shift would look like. I I kind of knew where to go, what to do next, and how to execute. One of my the my current director now is like, I've never seen somebody be this prepared for a thing. And I joked with him and I was like, it's it's it's a big decision. You know, like I said earlier, I've got two kids. Um, I've got my wife is stay at home and so there's lots of financial not I wouldn't call it pressure because obviously I'm the head of my household and I'm happy to do it but I have to be thinking like 3 5 7 10 years 15 years 20 years ahead and I'm like if I'm going to make this shift where I'm really comfortable in a position that I genuinely like and enjoy but I understand that I want to make more money and I want to grow exponentially in my career with the effort up front like I have to be sure about what I'm doing and I have to be smart about the decisions I'm making. So yeah, that made it a lot easier to do those things that I did and take those steps. >> Yeah, that's awesome. I mean, really great advice and yeah, I guess maybe one or two questions going towards a close as well. I know one I just want to highlight I love this conversation because we can talk tactics about interviews all day. We can talk about how to say things. Obviously, there's a ton even in that category alone. But I think this is such great perspective on those that are considering a career change versus someone trying to get their foot in the door for the first time. So, I think honestly for anyone watching like re-watch that as opposed to anything. I do want to ask like one question about your interviews. You know, if there was any anything that caught you like offguard or any advice you'd have to anyone going through this transition, I'd love to hear it, but again, I don't want that to be glossed over of how important the networking piece and like how many gems you just shared there as well. So >> totally yeah happy to share and and no surprises again which which touches on the point that I brought through earlier is that like when you speak to people who have been through the process have been through the interviewing process you're able to gauge exactly what the interviewing process is going to be and it's like our five steps that you mentioned in the course as well. So I knew okay I'm going to have to do a screening one-on-one manager interview. I'm going to have to do a role play. I'm going to do something that internally for us is called like cultures and values interview and this you you know if you would apply to clickup they will share this with you our recruiters will share these steps with you so you're well aware and then the one which I like to call final boss which is like the interview with our marketing VP and so I knew very clearly like what those steps were going to be fortunately because I was internal I got to skip the first two um mainly because I had done the screening I've been at the company for 5 is um the one-on-one interview through networking like I spoke about earlier. I was able to meet the hiring manager two two to 3 months before the posting was actually live and he was the one that DM'd me and was like, "Hey man, like there's a posting for my team. Go apply." And so I got straight into it with the role play. Um and the role play was great because again, you know, I I've been on higher levels since like I think March if I remember correctly. I could be wrong, but I've been in there for months. So I've gone through the material. I've listened to the material. I've watched your guys' YouTube videos over and over again. Like I've two, three times some videos. And so the information was like just in my mind and it just came down to refining my answers, keeping it short, which I haven't done on this call, but like you learn like sales VPs, sales managers, sales directors, like you've got to be quick, get your answer out your mouth in like 30 seconds, 40 seconds to a minute. And so that leading up to all of those interviewing stages, um it was just refining refining my processes, figuring out my scripts, understanding how to guide a certain conversation a certain way. And then for cultures and values as well, it's also understanding like what do people look for in a salesperson in a BDR? Like are you genuinely curious? So, you're going to get on a call with a customer and ask them really good questions about their business, understand how we're going to provide them value, or are you just going to call a bunch of people and hope for the best? Like things like that. Um, do you have grit? Do you have determination? Like understanding that ultimately at the SDR BDR level, they are hiring for traits. You might not have the full bag. you might not be fully qualified, but generally they're also looking does this person is this person naturally competitive? Are they going to get after it? Do they have grit? Like how do they handle rejection? And then the final interview with um our sales v with our marketing VP rather is generally just like do you understand our product? Do you understand where we fit in the ecosystem of of like competitors in the market? Do we you know what's our product market fit? who are our ICPs, understanding the finer details about who we sell to and why, what value do we provide them. Um, I got a lot of push back in the interviews as well because I'm technical. And so, if you're a technical person transitioning into sales, expect it. One of the things that you'll get push back on is what is it about your technical experience that makes you think that it will be helpful for you to be a salesperson? And one of the the earliest things I learned early on was like my technical skills and ability are not the things that are going to make me a good salesperson. Completely different skill. Will they be helpful? Absolutely. Knowing the inner workings of our product the way that I do is absolutely going to give me a leg up in certain conversations. But that's not no longer my job, right? I'm selling value to customers now. And so my focus needs to shift completely on the look at what our product does. look at this cool feature to how do I tie these features to business values, the goals that your business has kind of what are your targets? What are you working on in your company? And how how can I tie that into our features and benefits and the cool things that our app does? And so it's leading with customer value first and then secondary with with the features and benefits which yeah we have cool features and benefits but that doesn't mean anything to a business owner who's wanting to increase revenue in their marketing department and they're dealing with work sprawl and all of that you know and so understanding when the technical comes in and when the business value is most important which is what that transition is. So yeah no surprises on the interviewing process in general. I was able to be really prepared. The material you guys have prepared was really helpful. It was exactly as described and so there weren't much there weren't many curve balls in the interviewing process, I would say. And I I was just really comfortable going into them because I knew what to expect. >> Yeah, that's awesome to hear. I mean, so many gems right [laughter] there. I I might even want to rewatch this myself, man. This is uh this is probably the deepest conversation we've had. And again, like totally agree with everything you're saying. I think it's really great to hear too um you having just gone through this of exactly what that meant for you and all of that. I guess maybe as one closing point I mean there's already so many gems here. If there's anything call it advice to your younger self or other things that come to mind I'll definitely give you the floor but um congrats again. Obviously super sto you and uh yeah excited to see where the next 12 24 months takes you. >> Thank you. I appreciate that. Thank you for for the course you guys have prepared. Like it's it's huge, you know. And I got my job at ClickUp after going to a six-month boot camp. So immediately I knew the value of being in an environment with a group of people who a have done it, know how to do it, have succeeded in in it like yourselves, Chris um and and Connor. And so for me it was like, yeah, obviously I'm going to join this boot camp. Like these guys have done it at big companies, major companies. they're in the positions that I want to be in. So, it it was an easy decision for me to jump into your course and the material was as advertised and really it it it would be a fool's errand for you not to do it. You have to give yourself the best chance at success and so put yourself around people who are successful. Right? That's the first thing that I would say. Second thing for people who are on the fence about do I want to do this? Do I not want to do it? I would say trust in yourself, trust your gut. I think a lot of it at the end of the day is you have to make a calculated risky decision about can I be successful at this? I think I can do it for sure. And again, it comes up to proper preparation prevents poor performance. Like I remember it from my back in my sporting days in high school. One of my coaches, if you prepare properly, you won't fail. So I would say take the risk, take the leap of faith if you're considering it. I I don't have much to speak to about what it will look like for me, but I I think, you know, I'm I'm in a good environment. I've got a good team, good manager, and just a generally good product that I'd be selling. So, I'm confident that I'll be able to do well. But again, a lot of that comes down to taking the time to prepare um and get you hit in the game. Um those on the fence, just do it, man. I would say just do it. Um, I would say you'll all the decisions that I've made that were risky, I've never looked back and been like, "Man, that was a terrible decision." Well, some of them were terrible decisions, I won't lie. Um, but generally speaking, I've always looked back on the decisions that I've made and been like, "Yeah, that was well worth it." And I joke with my wife of like, "Man, we wish you had found this sales route like 5 years ago when you were starting your career in in tech." Everything happens for a reason. Like just trust the timing. You weren't I wasn't meant to be in tech sales 5 years ago. That's why it's happening now in 2026. That's just the reality of it. But trust your journey. Trust your path. Put in the hard work up front and everything else after that will be infinitely easier. >> No, that's awesome, man. Congrats again. Obviously, like first and foremost, you put in the work. So, I'm I'm glad we helped. I'm glad we kind of guided you along the way and took out some of the the guesswork, but um you know, at the end of the day, you made it happen. So, we're obviously stoked for you and uh yeah, unless anything else, appreciate the time. Well, >> that's it. Thank you guys so much. Appreciate you all.
