# Military to Tech Sales (in 6 Weeks)

- **Publish date**: 2026-04-16T12:34:36Z
- **URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kfmlVOMtg9U

## Description

▶Take our free tech sales course: https://www.higherlevels.com/free-training?via=youtube
▶Break Into Tech Sales in 6 Weeks: https://www.higherlevels.com/ascension?via=youtube

#techsales #B2BSales #SaaSSales #SDRJobs #BDRJobs

## Transcript

Hey everybody. Excited to be here with Sean who just broke into tech sales. Got an awesome background, awesome story. I'm sure we'll dive into it. Maybe set the stage for everyone. Share a little bit about your background. What got you looking at tech sales? >> Yeah, so I joined the Army National Guard at age 19. Uh I'd gone to college for a semester. I was spending all my money on tuition and realized I don't know what I want to do with my career yet. So I dropped out. I enlisted and the job that I picked in the National Guard had a really long training pipeline. So I was in training for almost three years. So it felt like I was in that active duty type of uh culture. Um but then I finished my training and came back to the civilian world and I still hadn't fully decided what I was going to do. [clears throat] the the military job that I have uh is around interrogation. I'm a human intelligence collector. So, my training was a lot about talking to people, getting information they don't want to give you, building rapport, active listening, that kind of thing. And so, as I was getting ready to leave training and I needed to find a job, I was married, had a young kid, he had just turned one. And so I was I went to my instructor and was like, "Hey, I do you have any recommendations where I can take these skills and make good money for my family?" He's like, "Get into sales. That's that's where it's at." Uh, so I actually applied to some tech roles during that time and I didn't really know what I didn't know and so it didn't go anywhere. Didn't even get first round interviews and I applied to dozens of companies. Uh, and I ended up taking a role doing door-todoor with Spectrum. And that was a fantastic role. I learned a lot. It provided for my family during that year. Um, but wasn't really conducive to any sort of work life balance. I was commuting sometimes two hours to get to my turf where I was knocking and and then you knock until 8:00 p.m. 9:00 p.m. Drive home. Doing that five days, sometimes six days a week. Uh, so I was ready for something new and I kind of came back to the idea of tech sales and during that whole year that I was knocking doors, I'd been watching some of the higher level videos. So I realized I need to do something different to get get recognized, get some interviews. I was a little bit hesitant. I I try to be a frugal guy, so I was a little bit hesitant getting a course. Uh but the testimonials that I watched you you uh interviewing some people who had been in similar situations to me made me realize, okay, it's worth it. It's an investment and it's going to pay itself back because I I believed in uh my ability to land a job if I had the right tools. So, that's kind of what what brought me here to tech sales and uh what kind of got me uh to to go with higher levels for that process. >> Yeah, that's awesome, man. Really cool story and awesome background, too. Um I I'm curious, too, maybe taking a quick step back. Obviously, you it sounds like you found us on YouTube, probably binge watching some of those videos. Just going back to that decision, I know you said, "Hey, I do want to invest in myself." The testimonials helped. Were you considering other programs? Was it anything in particular that really made Higher Level stand out for you? >> Yeah, I hadn't necessarily considered other programs. I just I've seen online scams and people selling courses where a bunch of people get ripped off. And so I was kind of pessimistic of the whole even even the idea of paying somebody to to watch content online to to learn a valuable skill. Um, and I think going through the process with higher levels really changed my mindset on that where now I'm like that investment is going to pay for itself 100 times over, you know, within the first year. So, if I can I I I think that my mindset has changed where now I'm actually interested in doing more types of courses, trainings, mentorships. I want to get as many people that have the skills that I'm trying to get in front of me to to teach me. So, it was clear from the start that higher levels, you guys had the authority and I saw that in all your videos. One, because you were putting out the free content that was actually super useful, really [clears throat] easy to to understand and implement. Um, and then two that you and Connor both come from a really you guys have had a lot of success in the sales space and then obviously the testimonials. So me being pessimistic about the whole idea of doing an online course that made it you that made you guys the clear choice because you had done so much to to present your authority to train SCRs. >> Yeah, that's awesome, man. We appreciate that. And yeah, it's something we we've always from the start tried to to make high quality content. So great to hear you're getting a ton out of that. I would love to probe into too something you said earlier around you tried kind of applying on your own didn't even get responses maybe just first from the interview process looking at actually landing interviews anything you changed in your approach you know especially in your situation going straight to the military right out of high school did you get any objections to any of that or military background I'm just curious kind of how that went in terms of what you changed to actually start getting jobs consistently >> yeah so definitely changing my resume uh that video that you guys had in the course where you did the deep dive on the resume, how to make past experience that's not in the sales world reflect the the skills and traits that are needed to do sales. So, uh a perfect example is my military training. I sat in a booth with people that they don't want to talk to me. They're trying to get out of this conversation. and I have to build rapport, work my way in, you know, give them some type of motivation to continue talking to me and and get to the state I want them in, which is being compliant, answering my questions. Um, and so I I rephrased that in my LinkedIn, in my resume, and made it look like uh a sales experience type of type of role. Um, and then obviously, I mean, I had no profile photo on my LinkedIn. I had like three connections and it was family members. Uh, so just some some small changes like that. fixing my bio, my my prior work experience, putting a photo on there, [snorts] um really helped to get the first round interviews. Uh because I wasn't even getting success there initially. Um so that that was the big game changer. And then obviously getting into the first round interview, being confident enough to sell myself, I I feel like the course did a lot in that respect. where I was going into the interview instead of being worried, oh, I I don't have tech sales experience. This is a very professional role. I'm not qualified. Having gone through the course and heard about how they're not necessarily, they don't necessarily even want somebody with experience. They just want somebody who can be confident, who can work hard, basically be a a self-sufficient seller. And so then I I go into those those couple first round interviews really confident I can do this role and that attitude shift I think made a huge difference as well. >> Yeah, that's awesome, man. Really great examples there too of I think the small things that people overlook. Um, yeah, it's, you know, it takes some time. You got to get the right things in place, but I think everyone's so anxious to even just get a job that, to your point, they're not optimizing the resume, the LinkedIn, and those small things do make a difference, especially now. So, great feedback. I'm curious, too. You know, I I love your experience and the way you're already talking about it. I can tell I'm sure that landed really well with people you interviewed with. maybe getting more to I don't want to make this sound you know necessarily more complicated than it is but mid or final stage interviews if you had any exercises presentations mock cold calls I'm curious how that was maybe never having done that formally in terms of like a pure tech sales role any challenges you experienced any advice to anyone watching >> for sure um so two big challenges that I kind of face in the interview process uh firstly would be we're we're like a midsize uh SAS company. So, we're small enough that I had an interview with the the CEO and the interview with him, he kind of he put me through some exercises, some cold call, some cold calls, and his push back was, "You've got a great attitude. You're confident. You're you're willing I can tell you're willing to put in the work. You're ready to do this, but you don't have the experience." And that's clear like in your in your cold call exercise that you're not super uh smooth with your your pitch and all of that. And that was the first kind of real challenge I've gotten in an interview where like he would he he told me we're looking for somebody with experience. We're we're growing right now. We need some some good talent in these roles and I don't think you're ready. And so that was the first interview where I had had somebody basically tell me in the interview, I don't think we're moving forward with you. Um, and there was a there was a portion in one of the the videos in the course um where you were talking about that push back and part of the test is just being confident enough to continue to sell yourself even in the face of that. Uh, so that was really helpful because when I pushed back and continued to say like I'm I'm a fast learner and no, I don't have the experience, but I'm going to work harder than anybody else to get up to speed as quick as possible. Um, he countered with, okay, I want to see you do these five things and then contact us once those are done and we'll look at getting you another interview. and he meant it because I went and I did those things and we moved forward. And then the second challenge was the final interview. Everybody in the Dallas office came to sit in on my presentation on a product I don't know. I'm not [laughter] I don't have tech experience. So um and the company is a SAS data uh backup and recovery company. So, not necessarily super complicated, but a space that I don't know anything about. So, I had to go do a ton of research, build my my slide deck, um, and then pitch to a room full of people that I just met. So, that that was a big challenge that I definitely wouldn't have been ready for without the course. Um, and even just walking in with the confidence again, I felt like that was the biggest my biggest advantage because I was interviewing against some people that had experience uh and had sales degrees, but I was able to with with that confidence go in, give a great pitch and bake it till I make it basically. No, >> that's awesome, man. I think great advice and yeah it's also I think that the preparation is key like to your point I think that's really I I think you did a good job laying out of how you know you we can never fully prepare you for any one type of situation but I think you just approach it completely differently like to an earlier example where they say hey I don't think you have enough experience if you know going into that interview that that's almost just a test like it's not even actual true feedback like you're just so much better equipped to handle that and obviously it's worked out Um, love to see it. I guess maybe just looking back on your entire experience too, if there's any advice you'd give to your younger self, someone in your similar situation or whatever it may be. Um, anything you feel like you would add to anyone out there watching? >> Yeah, just go for it. If you think that you might enjoy a career in sales, if you feel motivated to give it a try, just go for it. Because I don't know how other company compan companies necessarily are with this, but my manager when I got here basically sat me down, said, "I'm going to do everything I can to help you succeed in sales. All I need from you is is effort, but it's not necessarily for everybody." So, if I'm seeing that you're putting in effort, you're working hard, and you're just not you're not hitting your quotas, you're not you're not hitting the mark, uh there's other positions at the company that we love to keep people on, even if they're not necessarily in the right role. And so, for somebody who doesn't have any sales experience or tech sales experience and they think it might be a good option, you're not necessarily pigeonholed in, but why not give it a try? Why not invest in yourself, commit, see where it takes you? Because, you know, I'm already seeing, we just had some promotions in the company of STRs to AEES, AEES up to uh higher level markets. And so, I'm already seeing how lucrative of a career it can be if you do get good at it. So, I would just tell you take the chance on yourself and give it a try. if it's not for you, you know, you you're a year, two years in the role and it's just not working out, you can always pivot. It's not going to be a detriment. It'll only be a positive. And the the skills that you learn in sales aren't going to help you in every area of life. So, >> yeah. No, well said, man. Completely agree. And I I think in your situation, like obviously is a no-brainer. And I think a lot of people overthink it, too, in terms of to your point, it's like they they make it this life or death thing. And actually, if you do it for a year or two, maybe you like it and or maybe you parlay it into something else. But right, especially, you know, in your situation, you're early enough in your career to where yeah, I mean, there's only upside in my opinion, but obviously super stoked for you, man. Um, like amazing work breaking in. Um, love to see it. I know, no doubt you're going to grow rapidly over the next 12 to 24 months. Excited to see where it takes you. If there's anything else you want to add before we call it, um, feel free. But congrats again, man. You'll be you'll be seeing me on STR Accelerator at some point here. I'm probably in the new year once I'm in my workflows and really have a grasp on the the company. But uh you you converted me to a believer in investing in yourself. Uh just do your research, make sure that you're you're uh going to the right source for your information. But yeah, I'm super grateful. I know my family's super grateful, too. um makes a big difference me being home at a regular time. Uh and even I mean it's sales so some days you are staying here late but it's just such a an improvement being in this space compared to where I was at before. So um huge huge thank you and uh very grateful. Oh, >> we appreciate it, man. Congrats to you again and uh yeah, I'm sure we'll be talking soon.
